subscriptions/solutions/renewing-purchasing-or-canceling/help-renewing/includes/admin-help-me-renew-subscriptions.md, before:

---
title: How do I renew subscriptions?
description: The super admin is looking for more information on how to renew
comment:  As of August 2023 this include is used to render marketing FAQ content for VS Subscriptions in the following portals - VSCom, Manage, and My portals. It was not used for learn.microsoft.com content at that time.  SMEs are Jose Becerra and Larissa Crawford of Red Door Collaborative and Angela Cao-Hong.
ms.assetid:  6500f968-8f30-43ca-8538-072bd642873e
author: joseb-rdc 
ms.author: amast 
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/17/2023
user.type: admin 
tags: renew  
subscription.type: vl, cloud
sap.id: b324c31f-5d44-4cc2-537a-9c354bc5fbfc
---

## How do I renew subscriptions?

The way you renew subscriptions depends on how they were originally purchased. 
+ Monthly or annual subscriptions purchased through Visual Studio Marketplace renew automatically until you cancel them, so no action is needed. 
+ Subscriptions purchased through a Volume Licensing agreement are handled through your organization’s primary contact and your reseller. These agreements are typically renewed for 1-3 year periods. Sometimes a super admin is also the primary contact and would likely know the status of the renewal. 

## More Information
[Read more about renewing Visual Studio subscriptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/subscriptions/faq/admin/renewal-cancellation/).

Commit message:

Updates for changes to the new sign in experience from chat window

subscriptions/solutions/renewing-purchasing-or-canceling/help-renewing/includes/admin-help-me-renew-subscriptions.md, after:

---
title: How do I renew subscriptions?
description: The super admin is looking for more information on how to renew
comment:  As of August 2023 this include is used to render marketing FAQ content for VS Subscriptions in the following portals - VSCom, Manage, and My portals. It was not used for learn.microsoft.com content at that time.  SMEs are Jose Becerra and Larissa Crawford of Red Door Collaborative and Aaron Mast.
ms.assetid:  6500f968-8f30-43ca-8538-072bd642873e
author: joseb-rdc 
ms.author: amast 
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/04/2026
user.type: admin 
tags: renew  
subscription.type: vl, cloud, retail
sap.id: b324c31f-5d44-4cc2-537a-9c354bc5fbfc
---

## How do I renew subscriptions?

The way you renew subscriptions depends on how they were originally purchased. 
+ Monthly or annual subscriptions purchased through Visual Studio Marketplace renew automatically until you cancel them, so no action is needed. 
+ Subscriptions purchased through a Volume Licensing agreement are handled through your organization’s primary contact and your reseller. These agreements are typically renewed for 1-3 year periods. Sometimes a super admin is also the primary contact and would likely know the status of the renewal. 
+ Retail Visual Studio subscriptions (Enterprise, Professional, and Test Professional) give you the option to purchase a new subscription or renew an existing one. You might do so through the [Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/collections/visualstudio?rtc=1) or by connecting to the [My.VisualStudio.com](https://my.visualstudio.com/subscriptions) portal and select the "Renew" link.

You must renew your subscription purchased through the Microsoft Store within 30 days from the expiration date to qualify for renewal pricing. 

Microsoft Store support is available by phone through the [Customer service phone numbers – Microsoft Support](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/customer-service-phone-numbers-c0389ade-5640-e588-8b0e-28de8afeb3f2) page or by chat using the [Store Assistant](https://www.microsoft.com/store/b/sale) on the Microsoft Store website.

## More Information
[Read more about renewing Visual Studio subscriptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/subscriptions/faq/admin/renewal-cancellation/).
