docs/debugger/view-data-in-tabular-visualizer.md, before:

---
title: "View  data with the Tabular visualizer "
description: View large collection objects with built-in tabular visualizers in the Visual Studio debugger and examine data by row and column for fields and properties.
ms.date: "09/03/2025"
ms.update-cycle: 180-days
ms.topic: how-to
f1_keywords:
  - "vs.debug.dataviewer"
dev_langs:
  - "CSharp"
  - "VB"
  - "FSharp"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "tabular visualizer"
  - "visualizers, tabular"
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: debug-diagnostics
ms.collection: ce-skilling-ai-copilot
monikerRange: '>= vs-2022'
---

# Tabular visualizers in Visual Studio

While you are debugging in Visual Studio, you can view large collection objects with the built-in tabular visualizers. The visualizer shows data in a tabular view with one row per object and sortable columns for each field and property. 

There are two types of tabular visualizers. The DataSet visualizer allows you to view the contents of a DataSet, DataTable, DataView, or DataViewManager. The IEnumerable visualizer allows you to view objects such as Arrays, List, etc.

## Open the visualizer

To open the visualizer, you must be paused during debugging.

You can access the visualizer by clicking on the magnifying glass icon that appears next to the Value for one of those objects ![VisualizerIcon](../debugger/media/dbg-tips-visualizer-icon.png "Visualizer icon") in a debugger variables window or in a DataTip.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/dbg-ienumerable-debugger-visualizer.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Open an IEnumerable visualizer.":::

## DataSet visualizer 

The DataSet Visualizer allows you to view the contents of a DataSet, DataTable, DataView, or DataViewManager object. 

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/dbg-tips-dataset-visualizer.png " alt-text="Screenshot of View the DataSet visualizer data.":::

## IEnumerable visualizer 

Starting in Visual Studio 2022, you can view IEnumerable collections in a tabular view.

The IEnumerable visualizer helps explore large collection objects in a more streamlined way. The visualizer supports IEnumerable collections where the object type (T) can be simple types or complex types like dictionaries.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/dbg-ienumerable-visualizer-data.png" alt-text="Screenshot of View the IEnumerable visualizer data.":::

You can use the right-click context menu to customize the view:

- Select **Hide Column** to hide duplicate data.
- Select **Expand Column** to see more details items in the complex data.
- Select **Hide Children** to get a more concise view of your data.

### Modify the expression in the IEnumerable visualizer

Starting in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.11, you can directly change the **Expression** textbox for the IEnumerable visualizer with a modified LINQ expression. The visualizer data gets updated, reflecting the data change resulting from your new query.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/dbg-ienumerable-visualizer-edit-expression.png" alt-text="Screenshot of view the visualizer data and edit the expression.":::

Starting in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.12 Preview 3, you get IntelliSense support to help you edit the expression.

### Get AI assistance

Starting in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.13, you can get inline AI assistance to edit the LINQ expression. If you have Copilot activated, click the GitHub [Copilot](../ide/visual-studio-github-copilot-install-and-states.md) sparkle icon ![GitHub Copilot sparkle icon](../debugger/media/vs-2022/copilot-sparkle-icon.png) to open the inline Copilot Chat.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/debug-ienumerable-visualizer-edit-expression-copilot.gif" alt-text="Screenshot of Copilot button to get help to edit the expression.":::

You can describe your query in natural language, and GitHub Copilot will generate the corresponding LINQ query. To apply LINQ query filtering to the visualizer, press **Enter**.

After at least one LINQ query has been generated by GitHub Copilot, you can choose to select the **Continue in Chat** button. This action opens a dedicated GitHub Copilot Chat window where you can refine your query, ask follow-up questions, view LINQ syntax examples, or explore alternative approaches in more detail. To apply a suggested LINQ query to the visualizer, use the **Show in Visualizer** button in the chat.

## Filter, sort, and export visualizer data

- Both DataSet and IEnumerable support filtering, sorting, and exporting of visualizer data.
- You can sort the visualizer columns in ascending/descending order by clicking on the column name.
- You also can filter visualizer data based on a filter string. Enter the string in the filter box in the upper right corner and press Enter. The Visualizer returns all the rows that contain a value that matches the filter string.
- You can export the data from IEnumerable visualizers in CSV/Excel format using the dropdown on the top right corner.
- You can also export the filtered and sorted results in CSV/Excel format.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/dbg-ienumerable-visualizer-filtering.png" alt-text="Screenshot of View the visualizer data filter.":::

## Related content
- [View strings in a string visualizer](../debugger/view-strings-visualizer.md)
- [Create custom visualizers (C#, Visual Basic)](../debugger/create-custom-visualizers-of-data.md)

Commit message:

Updates for changes to the new sign in experience from chat window

docs/debugger/view-data-in-tabular-visualizer.md, after:

---
title: "View  data with the Tabular visualizer "
description: View large collection objects with built-in tabular visualizers in the Visual Studio debugger and examine data by row and column for fields and properties.
ms.date: "02/05/2026"
ms.update-cycle: 180-days
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: awp-ai
f1_keywords:
  - "vs.debug.dataviewer"
dev_langs:
  - "CSharp"
  - "VB"
  - "FSharp"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "tabular visualizer"
  - "visualizers, tabular"
author: "mikejo5000"
ms.author: "mikejo"
manager: mijacobs
ms.subservice: debug-diagnostics
ms.collection: ce-skilling-ai-copilot
monikerRange: '>= vs-2022'
---

# Tabular visualizers in Visual Studio

While you are debugging in Visual Studio, you can view large collection objects with the built-in tabular visualizers. The visualizer shows data in a tabular view with one row per object and sortable columns for each field and property. 

There are two types of tabular visualizers. The DataSet visualizer allows you to view the contents of a DataSet, DataTable, DataView, or DataViewManager. The IEnumerable visualizer allows you to view objects such as Arrays, List, etc.

## Open the visualizer

To open the visualizer, you must be paused during debugging.

You can access the visualizer by clicking on the magnifying glass icon that appears next to the Value for one of those objects ![VisualizerIcon](../debugger/media/dbg-tips-visualizer-icon.png "Visualizer icon") in a debugger variables window or in a DataTip.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/dbg-ienumerable-debugger-visualizer.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Open an IEnumerable visualizer.":::

## DataSet visualizer 

The DataSet Visualizer allows you to view the contents of a DataSet, DataTable, DataView, or DataViewManager object. 

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/dbg-tips-dataset-visualizer.png " alt-text="Screenshot of View the DataSet visualizer data.":::

## IEnumerable visualizer 

Starting in Visual Studio 2022, you can view IEnumerable collections in a tabular view.

The IEnumerable visualizer helps explore large collection objects in a more streamlined way. The visualizer supports IEnumerable collections where the object type (T) can be simple types or complex types like dictionaries.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/dbg-ienumerable-visualizer-data.png" alt-text="Screenshot of View the IEnumerable visualizer data.":::

You can use the right-click context menu to customize the view:

- Select **Hide Column** to hide duplicate data.
- Select **Expand Column** to see more details items in the complex data.
- Select **Hide Children** to get a more concise view of your data.

::: moniker range="visualstudio"
### View object details with DataTips

Starting in Visual Studio 2026 version 18.3, you can hover over any cell in the IEnumerable visualizer grid to view a DataTip that shows the full object behind that value. The DataTip provides the same rich inspection experience available in the editor and Watch window.

This feature is useful when you debug collections of complex or nested types:

- **Domain objects**: Inspect a `List<Customer>` and hover over any property to see the complete `Customer` object with all its properties and nested members.
- **Dictionaries with structured values**: Hover over dictionary values to view the full object graph without expanding multiple rows.
- **Nested collections**: Quickly inspect nested objects without leaving the visualizer.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/visualstudio/debug-ienumerable-visualizer-datatip.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing a DataTip appearing when hovering over a cell in the IEnumerable visualizer.":::

> [!TIP]
> You can pin the DataTip to keep it visible while you continue exploring other cells in the visualizer.
::: moniker-end

### Modify the expression in the IEnumerable visualizer

Starting in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.11, you can directly change the **Expression** textbox for the IEnumerable visualizer with a modified LINQ expression. The visualizer data gets updated, reflecting the data change resulting from your new query.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/dbg-ienumerable-visualizer-edit-expression.png" alt-text="Screenshot of view the visualizer data and edit the expression.":::

Starting in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.12 Preview 3, you get IntelliSense support to help you edit the expression.

### Get AI assistance

Starting in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.13, you can get inline AI assistance to edit the LINQ expression. If you have Copilot activated, click the GitHub [Copilot](../ide/visual-studio-github-copilot-install-and-states.md) sparkle icon ![GitHub Copilot sparkle icon](../debugger/media/vs-2022/copilot-sparkle-icon.png) to open the inline Copilot Chat.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/debug-ienumerable-visualizer-edit-expression-copilot.gif" alt-text="Screenshot of Copilot button to get help to edit the expression.":::

You can describe your query in natural language, and GitHub Copilot will generate the corresponding LINQ query. To apply LINQ query filtering to the visualizer, press **Enter**.

After at least one LINQ query has been generated by GitHub Copilot, you can choose to select the **Continue in Chat** button. This action opens a dedicated GitHub Copilot Chat window where you can refine your query, ask follow-up questions, view LINQ syntax examples, or explore alternative approaches in more detail. To apply a suggested LINQ query to the visualizer, use the **Show in Visualizer** button in the chat.

## Filter, sort, and export visualizer data

- Both DataSet and IEnumerable support filtering, sorting, and exporting of visualizer data.
- You can sort the visualizer columns in ascending/descending order by clicking on the column name.
- You also can filter visualizer data based on a filter string. Enter the string in the filter box in the upper right corner and press Enter. The Visualizer returns all the rows that contain a value that matches the filter string.
- You can export the data from IEnumerable visualizers in CSV/Excel format using the dropdown on the top right corner.
- You can also export the filtered and sorted results in CSV/Excel format.

:::image type="content" source="../debugger/media/vs-2022/dbg-ienumerable-visualizer-filtering.png" alt-text="Screenshot of View the visualizer data filter.":::

## Related content
- [View strings in a string visualizer](../debugger/view-strings-visualizer.md)
- [Create custom visualizers (C#, Visual Basic)](../debugger/create-custom-visualizers-of-data.md)
