subscriptions/solutions/renewing-purchasing-or-canceling/help-purchasing/includes/admin-how-can-i-purchase-more-subscriptions.md, before:

---
title: How can I purchase more subscriptions?
description: The super admin/ admin would like more information on how to purchase more subscriptions
comment:  As of August 2023 this include is used to render marketing FAQ content for VS Subscriptions in the following portals - VSCom, Manage, and My portals. It was not used for learn.microsoft.com content at that time.  SMEs are Jose Becerra and Larissa Crawford of Red Door Collaborative and Angela Cao-Hong.
ms.assetid: 26fc654f-f76d-4c12-9d42-a827a5be5bdd  
author: joseb-rdc 
ms.author: amast 
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 08/17/2023 
user.type: admin 
tags: purchasing 
subscription.type: vl, cloud, retail, partner 
sap.id:  c374762c-640b-8b2c-d049-bda9545e903c
---

## How can I purchase more Visual Studio subscriptions?

There are several different options for purchasing more subscriptions.  (You may want to purchase through the same channel as your current subscriptions to make it easier to maintain billing.)

+ [Volume Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/how-to-buy/how-to-buy?rtc=1) – Subscriptions are available to purchase through a reseller when an organization needs to purchase a large quantity of subscriptions. 

+ Visual Studio Marketplace ([Professional](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms.vs-professional-monthly) and [Enterprise](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms.vs-enterprise-monthly)) – Monthly subscriptions, which allow you to rent Visual Studio and Azure DevOps without a long-term contract. Billing is handled through your Microsoft Azure subscription. If you don’t have an Azure subscription, it’s free to set up and can be done when you make your first purchase.

+ [Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/collections/visualstudio?rtc=1) (Enterprise, Professional, and Test Professional) – Retail Visual Studio subscriptions offering the option to make an individual purchase or to renew an existing one.

## More Information
For more details on the purchasing options, visit the [pricing page for Visual Studio subscriptions](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/pricing/).

Commit message:

Updates for changes to the new sign in experience from chat window

subscriptions/solutions/renewing-purchasing-or-canceling/help-purchasing/includes/admin-how-can-i-purchase-more-subscriptions.md, after:

---
title: How can I purchase more subscriptions?
description: The super admin/ admin would like more information on how to purchase more subscriptions
comment:  As of August 2023 this include is used to render marketing FAQ content for VS Subscriptions in the following portals - VSCom, Manage, and My portals. It was not used for learn.microsoft.com content at that time.  SMEs are Jose Becerra and Larissa Crawford of Red Door Collaborative and Aaron Mast.
ms.assetid: 26fc654f-f76d-4c12-9d42-a827a5be5bdd  
author: joseb-rdc 
ms.author: amast 
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 02/04/2026
user.type: admin 
tags: purchasing 
subscription.type: vl, cloud, retail, partner 
sap.id:  c374762c-640b-8b2c-d049-bda9545e903c
---

## How can I purchase more Visual Studio subscriptions?

There are several different options for purchasing more subscriptions. (You might want to purchase through the same channel as your current subscriptions to make it easier to maintain billing.)

+ [Volume Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/how-to-buy/how-to-buy?rtc=1) – Subscriptions are available to purchase through a reseller when an organization needs to purchase a large quantity of subscriptions. 

+ Visual Studio Marketplace ([Professional](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms.vs-professional-monthly) and [Enterprise](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms.vs-enterprise-monthly)) – Monthly subscriptions, which allow you to rent Visual Studio and Azure DevOps without a long-term contract. Billing is handled through your Microsoft Azure subscription. If you don’t have an Azure subscription, it’s free to set up and can be done when you make your first purchase.

+ [Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/collections/visualstudio?rtc=1) (Enterprise, Professional, and Test Professional) – Retail Visual Studio subscriptions offering the option to make an individual purchase or to renew an existing one.

## More Information
For more details on the purchasing options, visit the [pricing page for Visual Studio subscriptions](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/pricing/).

The "scenario table" helps determine whether the Visual Studio Subscriptions team or the Microsoft Store team is best suited to support your request.

Microsoft Store support is available by phone through the [Customer service phone numbers – Microsoft Support](https://support.microsoft.com/topic/customer-service-phone-numbers-c0389ade-5640-e588-8b0e-28de8afeb3f2) page or by chat using the [Store Assistant](https://www.microsoft.com/store/b/sale) on the Microsoft Store website.

For Visual Studio Subscriptions issues, scroll to the **"Still need help with Visual Studio Subscriptions?"** section and select **"Create a support ticket"** to ensure that your request routes to the appropriate support team.

| Scenario | Support Team | Details / Exceptions |
| -------- | ------------ | -------------------- |
| Subscription management and benefit information | Visual Studio Subscriptions | Visual Studio Subscriptions support can assist with subscription activation, benefit entitlements, renewal questions, and general subscription management. |
| Refund for a Visual Studio retail subscription | Visual Studio Subscriptions | Refunds are available only if the purchase was made within 30 days and the product key isn't used. See the applicable [Licensing Document](https://aka.ms/VSLicensing) for details. |
| Payment processing issues during checkout | Microsoft Store | Contact Microsoft Store support for assistance with payment errors or checkout issues. |
| Order canceled after confirmation | Microsoft Store | Microsoft Store support can help with questions or issues related to canceled orders. |
| Unrecognized charges from Microsoft | Microsoft Store | For billing questions or charge disputes, contact Microsoft Store support. |
| Sign-in and technical issues on the Microsoft Store | Microsoft Store | Microsoft Store support can assist with sign in issues or technical problems affecting the Microsoft Store website. |
| Adding a VAT ID or changing invoice details | Microsoft Store | Invoices are generated automatically and can't be changed manually. You can print the PDF invoice sent by email. |
| Request for a signed or stamped hard copy of an invoice | Microsoft Store | Physical copies aren't available. Use the PDF invoice provided by email. |
